the other part of the big digital Trend
we're seeing housing all the data in one
place and using Predictive Analytics
like what I mean by that is you get all
this data and insights from all these
advertising what do you do with that
how has been the the trip are of um for
speeches and in the content with our
company here in Brazil now you have a
branch in Brazil so it always be that so
events been good this has been fun uh I
speak quite a bit in Brazil this is
probably my 15th time in Brazil wow I've
Been Everywhere Florianopolis Bello Sao
Paulo
I've literally been everywhere Brasilia
and what's our favorite place here Alex
Sao Paulo I know I know most people say
Rio but I like Sao Paulo and like uh
caipirinha uh yeah Katrina I've had that
many times I had a lot in Florida
Annapolis a better drink from the nice
American yeah yeah beautiful place yeah
and business here is good you know I
know the economy is a little bit tougher
it's slowing down but uh I think we have
around 160 people now in Brazil focus on
the Brazilian Market nice that's nice so
you are one of the the corporate
influencers if you I can say that and
that it's one of the most uh influencers
right now and you started uh from
laughing from zero ground and what
caused my attention is that what you
sell is exactly what you do with
yourself in person how's that and how
can you please briefly tell your history
for for our our in the audience and and
say a little bit of how tough is that to
be present in our Plata farms and uh and
try to place yourself as an influencer
for marketing industry it's a lot of
work you know it's being on majority of
the platforms participating caring
trying to help people out it's a lot of
work but if you love what you do it's
fun good and I always tell people
Nothing worthwhile is easy
you know if you really want something
and you love it it's going to take a lot
of effort but if you are really
passionate about it you'll put in the
time and energy that's needed to
accomplish your dreams and your goals it
just takes time how many time you start
in your in the internet
I am 37 I started when I was 15 and a
half so roughly 22 years
wow and what's the difference there for
for nowadays and yeah the way you have
to move yourself you need internet so
when I first started it was very easy no
competition not too many platforms you
don't have to do much you can get
results within a month two months three
months now a lot of platforms a lot of
competition and the algorithms are much
harder so it takes a lot longer and a
lot more work to get the results
well nice and how do you see the the
environment of digital marketing
changing how do you see that the
industry how it's it's becoming
um uh the solutions and how companies
are interacting with uh the new way to
do marketing yeah so we see digital as a
future if you look at Google or Facebook
they're bigger than any of the
traditional media companies by Allah and
it just shows is because it works
um the future of digital is Omni Channel
and using Predictive Analytics to figure
out what's next so here's what I mean by
that
right now people do multi-channel in
Brazil at least multi-channel is is
you're on Twitter you're on Facebook
you're on Instagram you're on Google
you're everywhere
omnichannel is you're everywhere you're
on Google you're on LinkedIn Twitter Etc
but the difference between omnichannel
multi-channel is Omni channel the
channels work together so you take what
you learn from Facebook and you apply to
Instagram you take what you learn from
Instagram you apply it to Twitter you
take what you learned from Twitter you
apply it to Google
an omnichannel you're taking your
learnings and making all the channels
better
in multi-channel which is what we mainly
see in Brazil everyone does all the
channels but they do them separately
they don't have a cohesive strategy and
they're not using data to make them work
together
if you use the data to make them work
together you get more results you spend
less money and you make more you you
think that it's important to put here
offline channels like stars yes Etc or
no or I have one strategic for not
online channels you should have one
you should have a strategy for digital
you should have a strategy for offline
but they should also work together
you can do both look at Toros they do
really well digital we work with them
they're amazing customer we've helped
them grow their traffic on digital by a
lot and they also do offline you go
through airport in uh Gru airport you
can see uh todos advertising you can do
offline and online you just gotta make
them work together and Torres is a more
B2B company so we normally we are used
to see b2c Solutions companies are using
the solutions more properly so B2B it
works too yeah but if it works for B2B
it should easily work for b2c which it
does work for b2c as well we see both
um there's a lot of potential with both
you just got to make the channels work
together you know marketing is not about
offline or online everything is going
digital even with in the United States
with um television advertising a lot of
it is now transforming into digital Hulu
Netflix Roku it's all all starting to
become digital right in which you can
use digital platforms to buy television
ads now too and you can even start
tracking the television ads too through
digital it's the similar I put a
Facebook ads or Google ads in inside the
television the small companies can
acquire views in in television that's
the idea exactly and think of it this
way even with offline if I do I add in
the airport and I'm Toros I can end up
using a QR code so people can scan with
their phone and you can know which ad
they came from because you can track it
right you can tie it all in together and
that's what I mean the other part of the
big digital Trend we're seeing that
Brazil is going to adapt soon is
you know housing all the data in one
place and using Predictive Analytics
like what I mean by that is you get all
this data and insights from all these
advertising what do you do with that
and people need to take action but it's
about putting it in one place so you can
better understand the data and then take
action
well that's interesting and
um how about the algorithms of those
platforms they are keep changing they
have to adapt and we have to test and
switch what's your advice for that yes
but I'm going to give you one thing for
most of the platforms okay for YouTube
It's how well does a video do in the
first day so when you put a video on
YouTube in the first day send out emails
text messages tell everyone to watch it
if you get a lot of views in the first
24 hours the video keeps doing well
later on
with Tick Tock it's comments how can you
get engaging comments and the more
engaging comments on your video the more
viral your content goes even if the
comments come two three days later
LinkedIn though it's comments ideally in
the first four hours of the post going
live and the comments need to be at
least 12 words and they need to be
engaging as well
Facebook we see a massive increase in
views if your videos are over five
minutes long videos that are shorter
than five minutes long get much less
reach so with Facebook have five minute
plus long videos
with
um uh what is it called uh Instagram
um
they say live videos according to
earthweb is
more valuable than blog content
and in a live video is supposed to grow
by 5x I think it's 5x 5 or 15x is by a
lot within uh five years and Instagram
is lacking live videos they want users
to go live more so if you go live more
it'll help you get bigger audiences go
live with other influencers like you and
then
you'll get more followers so then when
you post more of your content other
people will see it Google it's about
Brands if you release free tools on your
website your brand will grow faster
which will make all your Google rankings
go higher
that's really nice and is there any
chance to change these rules right now
because they are they had there's a lot
of competitions we have a big war
between yeah social media Twitter
but these are the the tactics that I
just gave you will work for the next
year plus this is what's working really
really well right now
that's nice that's nice and well uh
early my career I was a procurement
executive yeah and I was hiring
agencies for Procter Gamble Unilever
PepsiCo so big companies here in Latin
America and it's always a challenge to
bring you know uh traditional agencies
going deep into the digital so that's
why there are new companies like NP
raising in this market and uh it's
totally new so how do you see the
traditional agencies adapting themselves
versus the new ones with more you know
the your side to this business yeah so
we know a lot of the traditional agency
owners the way they're trying to adapt
is to buy the digital ones
so then that way they can have an arm
that focuses on digital that is what
most of them are doing they're
struggling to adapt themselves but
that's why they're doing a lot of
Acquisitions so then that way they can
have that capability so like at my
agency NP digital we've already gotten
hit up by a lot of the traditional
agencies like the wpps ETC saying Hey
how do we work together are you
interested in for selling I just got a
message on LinkedIn uh yesterday saying
hey are you interested in selling to
Havas media I responded with no
right but yeah you get a lot of messages
uh a lot of the traditional ones are
buying the digital ones nice we talk
about of content we are content creators
as well yeah so how do you see this
environment right now influencers
content creators and Brands uh uh place
in their brains in those spaces right
it's the future
people love content content creators are
going to control more of the web and
what you're going to end up seeing is
brands are going to want to associate
with influencers because it's driving a
lot of sales and brand visibility
what you guys are doing is a future
and many CEOs starting to do content in
many social medias like LinkedIn we have
CEOs and and people that work inside the
corporate market doing the content while
you think about this that that's the
future it's a correct it is the future I
think it's correct and uh you also see a
lot of employees if I was an employee
starting at a company low level or even
mid-level I would create a lot of
content on my social media for the
company and myself because it increases
my brand it makes it easier for me to
get better jobs in the future and get
more promotions nice in the past week
we're talking about a lot of
um uh campaign tropicalization like we
have big companies and use the same
campaign and we have to tropicalize in
Brazil we are a tropical country so we
should be uh that hard but this is a
word for adapting the campaign for those
countries do you see uh uh some Game
Change on that with the digital so using
local influencers or more Global
campaigns you know and how you can plan
this yeah yeah so you got to plan it you
got to create your content calendar your
marketing your promotional calendar and
uh you ideally want to use the local
influencer so for Brazil you can use
someone big like Neymar but you know
Neymar is better for Brazil than for
United States because more people in
Brazil love Neymar because he's a soccer
God in Brazil right yeah exactly so you
want to localize it you can use big
influencers but ideally you want to use
influencers with that are well known
within that region So like
um
you know like uh
uh you can use Michael Jordan he's
better for United States versus Neymar
would be better for Brazil
right even though everyone knows Michael
Jordan in Brazil they still prefer uh
football right so they're going to
prefer Neymar so you want to adapt to
the local regions I like both
whatever whatever if you put if you put
both together so that it will be even
better yeah even better even better but
it's more expensive so it works as a
procurement guy executive would say no
no no no no yeah one only pick one or
maybe someone is growing there or you
say pick one and if it works then you
can have the other one yeah or wait
until the end of the world cup and let's
see who's the champion so maybe we can
use some some other uh but of course
Brazil is going to win and so I will
have to stick with Neymar probably but
but these two guys have millions of
followers in your
Instagram or Tick Tock and when when you
talk about the Nano creators yeah the
micro ones exactly what do you think
about this is a good strategy using many
Nano creators that have many followers
it's more like specifically yes what
you're saying the Nano influencers that
have specific audience it's better to
have a hundred of those than one big one
because sometimes a big one doesn't work
but when you have a lot of the Nano ones
it's more cheaper you can see which ones
work and then keep using the ones that
work and then stop using the ones that
don't work
that's a better strategy that's what we
use
for really big corporations that we work
with we do the Nano ones and the big
ones but we typically like starting with
the Nano ones show results and then you
go after the bigger ones that cost more
money
imagine if that you need to start your
company now you don't you don't have
nothing the digital content no side no
you don't have nothing
what channel we will start in your
strategy Google search Instagram for
Brazil I would start with Google search
and do SEO because it's one of the least
competitive channels in Brazil and it
has so many just so so they did MIT did
a study people found that search was
five times more valuable for people than
email and more than 50 times valuable
than social media bro so search is super
powerful even though it's not sexy it's
powerful yeah and it's not that
competitive here in Brazil for the SEO
side wow look anytime you do a search on
Google do you click on the paid listings
at the top or the free ones which one do
you click on most the time yeah you're
right you're going to click on the free
ones most of the time not the ads the
ads you know they're selling you
something the free listings is where
you're getting a lot of the traffic got
it enough search what are the second
stage that you do
the second channel is I would build up
an email list and create a big email
list in Brazil the third channel is I
would start with paid advertising Google
and Facebook fourth I would do all the
social media channels and do like
organic social
that's cool though and how do you see
the future of digital what's changing in
this industry that we we have to keep
our attention and try to combine our
efforts the future digital is going to
be much larger than traditional it's
just going to take more time in Brazil
but um the future of digital is massive
and what we're seeing is companies in
Brazil are starting to learn
omni-channel marketing where they're on
all the channels and they're learning to
use it together to actually help improve
the overall campaigns and in Brazil
we're also seeing the future involving a
lot of data and analytics most Marketing
in Brazil is I spent the money I'm
creative it looks good okay yeah but
what are the results how much revenue
did it drive this is super important
because every company has budgets did
you waste your money or did you get
better results see if your budget is 10
million raise a year and you can show
that the 10 million made you a hundred
million rise in Revenue yeah then you
can get approval for 20 30 40 million
rise right and then you can grow much
more by using data
that's cool and when we talk about
content as we we said like podcasts Etc
and we we have seen that that our brands
are companies that want to you know
generate leads
create leads instant and live if
possible of course we saw some caves
here in Brazil that the announcers and
they they were having the ROI
while the live was happening yeah and
that's not live Commerce and on the
other hand we saw companies that are
investing more on brand building they
want to be present in strategic
conversations or deep uh subjects and
that's matter to them what's the balance
of brand building and you need to do
both it's not one or the other you need
both if you look at shoes everyone in
Brazil wears Nike shoes it's because
it's a brand everyone knows Nike and
just like you may end up using newbank
as a credit card because they have the
brand right yeah but at the same time
you need to also do digital advertising
that drives Revenue you need a
combination of both I say you should
spend majority of the efforts on digital
but 10 20 should be on branding
[Music]
that enemy and I start up
small businesses and small business
small businesses we need to do the both
you need to do both but what you'll find
is even the performance like the digital
it helps with branding as well because
if people keep seeing the ads even if it
makes you money they're still seeing it
and it's still branding they all help
with branding if you're really really
small and you have very little money
start off with the performance right
make sure you have the digital for every
dollar every Ray I you spend you make
two three four five REI so it's
profitable and then as you have more
money you can start getting into more
branding if you're really small and you
don't have much money
that's interesting and fun because we
we've seen in Brazil now a trained of
you know company companies launching
products yeah and if you have to kick
apart like the Eric Rojo model yeah
versus you know having a platform that
you can sign for a service Etc
what do you think about this this both
strategies they're both good there's
nothing wrong Apple does product
launches yeah
um but there's a lot of companies that
don't do product launches like uh uh
Salesforce and it works out well they
there's no right or wrong way they both
work it's preference what do you prefer
is what you do but there's no right or
wrong and the way to operating the
digital marketing is different right
for product launch yes because you got
to build up a lot of demand and uh Buzz
and then you launch with the other one
you spend as you see results
cool and how do you see the changes in
Twitter exactly
Elon Musk has done very well as
entrepreneur I never bet against him I
think he's gonna have a lot of work cut
ahead of him
um and I think he's trying to build this
amazing all-in-one platform he's talked
about it a little bit but um time will
tell with Twitter I think it's a little
too early I think he's dealing with a
lot of government and regulations and
people with privacy and all this kind of
stuff so it'll take a long time before
we see good change from Twitter I think
it'll take six months to a year wow well
yeah it's a turnaround and they were
bleeding and now they have to cut a lot
yeah he's gonna have to clean up a lot
of stuff it's a lot of work but I
believe he can do it he's smart
and have money yeah he has a lot of
money he's the richest person in the
world yeah exactly and what's your
manage manager style I thought it will
see yourself in early in your career as
a worker and and now as an executive
entrepreneuring
there's not much of a difference the big
thing that I learned over the years
being a business owner is
you need to help other people succeed
and I wish I knew this when I was
working you know when I was much younger
because even if you're working in a
company your goal isn't to just succeed
yourself your goal is to also help other
people succeed because if you can help
your whole team succeed you'll do better
as well you need to be a team player and
look out for the company not yourself
that's how you win if you say forget
Neil forget my name is Neil forget Neil
let me focus on making the company the
star making sure they do best that is
how I do better you need to put other
people first and help others succeed
what are the challenge they're facing
now in your company what are what are
your objectives right now always hiring
good people is hard yeah yeah because
there's so many people you gotta
interview find the right people it's
just a challenge in Brazil we have
around 160 but um when we hire a lot of
times we have to train them in our
methodology because a lot of times
they're using the traditional Tech
strategies which don't work too well for
digital so we got to get them up to
speed and get them right which takes
time and uh
it's also helping a lot of large
corporations understand the power of
digital once they start working with us
then they're like oh wow these results
are amazing let me spend more and more
and more but it takes a little bit of
time and more convincing
well and what are the the type of people
are trying to hire is there in any
particular knowledge or abilities or
skills anything in digital marketing
email marketing conversion optimization
paid media SEO all the channels good at
Social Media Marketing we're looking for
everyone we're hiring a lot of people
right now Big Frame is starting my
career now why do you think that the
best I mean learning to work in digital
marketing the best way to learn is to
start your own website and test and
experiment
is that working keeps exactly as USD in
the past right yes nice and now we we
see a big opportunity starting in the
United States about the micro SAS yes uh
small like this software as a services
to create a lifestyle entrepreneur you
can even do that in Brazil what do you
think about this you think that is a
good strategy if you like the idea you
should go for it but I rather create a
bigger company because it's just as hard
to create a nano or micro SAS as it is
to create a big one so might as well
create a big one it's almost the same
effort there's not much difference so
might as well go for the big one
if you could turn back on time what
would you do differently Focus I did too
many businesses I wish I did my Ad
Agency Neil Patel or NP digital and we
have NP digital Brazil as well but I
wish I focused more on that and not did
as many other businesses
what was right or wrong in the past so
you are building yourself for you and
all that yeah no but before I try to do
two three businesses at the same time
instead of one and just focus and just
put all the effort into one
and having the the right people with you
and all that one yes makes a big
difference yeah and what do you
recommend to our audience in terms of
lecture and reading books that inspires
you I love about this I love uh or my
blog neilpatel.com it's in Portuguese we
have a Portuguese blog that teaches you
our Market many many contents yes I
follow that I'm a very fan about and uh
the other thing I would do is watch a
lot of YouTube videos and go to a lot of
conferences there's conferences like
this but there's a lot of YouTube videos
in Portuguese that teach you marketing
no that's great that's great excellent
well about the the end would be
the digital native brains what do you
think about it's it's still going to
time to create when the nvb or now I
need to uh start offline start and
digital starts
uh you can do offline and digital at the
same time
um but
look with digital the the big thing with
it is this how do you go out there and
just
generate a Roi as quick as possible see
with digital is trackable you can end up
in the first day with your digital brand
why can't you spend money and see if
it's working if it is you put more if
it's not you go and you retest and you
tweak and you edit
yeah yeah and we see a big digital
nature we started and do a strongly
growth like the prime drink yes from KSI
and then they go uh traditional but they
do a lot of people do digital first and
we think it's a smart approach because
it's less expensive you can penetrate
markets quicker with digital
that's nice and being present in this
kind of event is good for networking of
course there's an exhibition of NP here
and
um what kind of businesses can you
audios can you make here
yeah we're talking to quite a few large
corporations
um we'll probably work with some big
brands that are everyone here knows
about in Brazil we'll share later on uh
but yeah events are good you should
everyone should go to more events just
like how you guys are here it's fun and
what's the plans for expansion of the
agency worldwide yeah we're we just did
Germany so we're now in Germany and then
we're going to soon launch France in
Italy and Portugal and Spain so we're
continually adding more
what is this strategies franchise or is
there no no no we own it we want it we
own it in Brazil we own it in Australia
we own it in Canada UK Germany Etc we
own it everywhere India We Own It how
many employees there have around 800
total now oh wow a little bit less than
800. all right and how to preserve or
keep the quality level why we are
explaining that's a kind sounds quite
challenging right yes you just make sure
that people are cultural fit and have
good experience
those two things we look for people who
have already done it before so they have
the experience and we look for people
who are very like-minded and uh
culturally or of it believe in the same
values about the learning of your
employers you have one straters to do
these when we have instructors that help
train and teach and educate inside the
enp yes using your methodology and your
culture as we often see the the future
is uh crucial for business right yes
very important yeah and uh can we have a
quick spoil a spoiler of waterviews
we'll share with the audience and the
HSM plus here's a quick spoiler 15 of
searches on Google have never been
searched before whoa and I'm gonna show
you how to figure out what those
searches are so you can do your
marketing campaigns after those searches
because it's not competitive and there's
a lot of Revenue to be made
that's something good hack yeah good
hack good hack good hack that's why we I
fall
on YouTube and other uh platforms guys
it's always a a pleasure to hear those
tips but uh it's not only to get those
if we are not applying there's no
execute is it cute is it cute yeah you
won't learn if you they're cute yep and
uh final question some advice to our our
audience and the people that works with
us in our uh uh podcast hub
uh yeah the the advice for your audience
people working on podcast Hub is you
know whatever you're trying to do in
life be patient and keep doing it it
takes a lot of time to get the results
you want life is long be patient don't
give it six months don't give it one
year give it five ten years you'll
accomplish what you're trying to do you
just have to be patient
that's cool thanks for being here that
was a pleasure and uh enjoy our staying
in Brazil thank you and uh
our doors are over always open thank you
and thank you for having me oh nothing
yeah thanks for sharing your time yes I
really appreciate it